we're thinking about biceps there's a
bunch of different exercises you can do
there's also a lot of ego in these
exercises because the biceps are filled
with ego you got some guns there so I
know that you know a little bit about
biceps training first thing we want to
go over is the standing barbell curl so
what I want you to do pick up that
barbell bring a little bit closer grip
so you want a grip that's kind of almost
closer to being inside of your shoulders
I'd rather have you go closer on
estimation then farther away what I want
you to do keep your core nice and tight
chest high spine in a neutral position
keep your elbows back to where they are
you're not curl that bar up towards your
chest now come all the way up here right
to that position and then back down on a
slow negative I think you see people
tryna throw it up and then bringing it
down throw it up and bring it down
you're not kidding any arm stimulation
there you see the muscles here are
getting nicely stimulated beginning
there's much stimulation on the negative
or the downward as you would on the
outboard
good and you're coming up all the way up
getting a full contraction full range of
motion all the way down arms are
straight good for me one more right back
all the way down okay go ahead and put
that down the benefit of the dumbbells
wrist of the barbell I said she can
actually add some pronation and
supination to the exercise I mean you
can turn your wrist off and really
activate that bicep now you notice when
you pick when you take your wrist and
your front in this position and you turn
a little bit more the bicep actually
activates a good bit more so what I want
you to do is bring this up one at a time
nice and strict turning that dumbbell in
as much as possible at the top right so
back down good I'm just gonna turn you
this way just a little bit what I'll let
you do pick it up twist that in right
you're getting a full contraction at the
top there again getting a good negative
now what we don't want to do is swing
the dumbbells up so yep
bring it all the way back up there and
power cleaning the dumbbells or anything
like that you want to actually try and
get everything up nice smooth
contraction just like you're doing right
there that will bow they're not bringing
the dumbbell forward or anything like
that because if you bring the dumbbell
forward then you're actually working
more the deltoids rather than the dumb
then the bicep keep them as close to
your body as possible exactly good
instinct right the other thing you can
do is actually if you're trying to get
more symmetry is do both at the same
time so you bring them out and it's a
little bit harder on the core bringing
them up and squeezing them up and then
right back now good one more time up
good and then right back down good
awesome
now the other variation I'm going to
show you is the hammer curl variation
now what this does this actually works
the muscles in between here it adds a
little bit of thickness to the bicep so
what you're going to do is you're going
to take it and curl it up just like that
you actually go a little bit lighter if
you want it to but bring this up squeeze
right to that position and right back
down the other variation of the hammer
curl is you can bring it across your
body from the front right so bring it
across there keeping the elbows tight to
your body bringing it across there
keeping the elbows tight to the body
lengthening the muscle now go ahead and
put that down it's really important
between every biceps exercise that you
actually stretch and you should never
start a workout with biceps ever the
reason is because biceps are the easiest
muscle in your body to tear when they
tear you tear from here and they snap
right right up into your shoulder so
when you're when you start off the
workout with biceps you're really
putting yourself in danger you should
really give yourself a chance to warm up
those muscles and work into them
stretching your biceps so what you want
to do is push your palm into the surface
and then bring your shoulder forward
right the pushing the palm into the
surface is actually going to focus more
on the bicep then on this shoulder here
so you really want to try and get that
tension there let's try it so take your
palm push it into the shoulder here and
then come forward can you feel the
stretch there or not good hold that for
about thirty seconds at a time and then
get on with your neck side